Unscheduled afternoon and or an unscheduled night.
What did you do?
I Don't know that we had very many of those Most of the time you just sleep You go back to your room and sleep Yeah, you could uh-huh, but if they caught you well
not catch you, but if the upperclassmen needed something done and you were asleep, well that didn't bother them that they would wake you up.
Then in the evenings, if you didn't have a schedule, where did you go?
during the week you would stay in your room unless you went to a library or something like that.
You had to, we had to be in the room.
Or with a pass posted.
Describe the library for a student in that era.
Describe it as a place to go.
Most of us would, well my use of the library was not good.
I would just go over there
to get out of my room, to get out of the way of the upperclassmen, put my books on the table, maybe lean over and take a nap, but very seldom go and do any reference work at all.
But just get away and sit there in your chair with a big table and do your homework and, or maybe visit with some others if you happen to see anyone else in there that you knew and after a while you got to
seeing some others and you would kind of meet over there perhaps, but it was not an organized meeting place.
But in the afternoon, most of the time you would have some sort of a lab and then the nighttime was when I would go over there quite a bit or in the morning time.
In the afternoons I
personally did not usually go to the library, but it was a
sort of a refuge.
Right, that's what I have heard.
Yeah.
And by and large, no one hazed, picked on anybody in the library.
No, no, no.
The library was essentially off limits for any of that.
I would guess that sometimes an upperclassman would detail a freshman to go and do something for him, but it was essentially a refuge.
All right, what about some during all of your years as a student can you think of some pranks or jokes or good bull that you heard of maybe you didn't participate in but you heard about that you could describe?
Well, there was one prof, history I believe, Count Zegaroff.
And my understanding that this happened to Paul Lowry, that Paul answered a question one time and, where did you get that answer?
Out of the book.
Throw the book out the window.
So Paul did, threw the book out the window.
And then we would, we had fish days in those, back in that era.
in which the freshmen were essentially coming of age.
And it was on April the 1st and he would essentially cut classes and go do all sorts of things.
I know the group that I was with, Fish Day in 1937, we caught the train and went to Bryan.
Didn't pay for it.
Caught the train and came back.
And I guess roamed the streets in Bryan and imagined the cops were looking at us, but nothing ever happened.
Let's see.
Fish day.
What was it?
When was it?
April 1st.
Usually.
And that was the day when you got out of fishdom.
You could call upperclassmen by Bill Greenwall instead of Mr. Greenwall.
And also it was
Let's see.
No, no, that's not when you got that.
There was a beer bust when you got to do that, when you got to call him Mr. instead of Mr. Greenwall, Bill Greenwall.
But Fish Day was campus-wide.
Beer bust day would be by individual units.
Well, another thing that would happen at times, being the room orderly, you had to make up the beds of the upperclassmen.
And so you wouldn't dare short sheet him.
But your friend would, and so you would arrange with your friend a short sheet.
Mr. Greenwall.
And he would go in and try to crawl into bed and get halfway in and that's all he could do.
And then he would have to remake it or call his freshman, which he wasn't supposed to do, but he would.
But I think short sheeting was one of the most common types of heckling that freshmen would do to their upperclassmen.
But as I say, not to the one that you were rumored for, because he would really get with you then.
But it was a... Did you all ever, you or any of your buddies, ever play a prank on another student when he was out on a big date?
Oh...
Well, those were on weekends usually when there was a big dance on campus because otherwise there were no girls around and there was no date to be had.
But yeah, a couple of times that I remember the guy was thinking that he had a
heavy date, hot date, good date, whatever, and you would give him a haircut or paint him with some mercurochrome, something like that.
I think
I remember someone, not me, mailed, a guy had a date to come down for, I don't know what, football game or a dance or something.
And somebody else wrote him a letter to cancel the date, but sent it to Denton to be mailed back down here.
He had two dates that weekend.
He went out and got another date in the meantime.
But talking about that for just a minute, Woody Warner.
That's how he met his wife.
She came down for a dance or a football weekend, I don't remember that, but from up there and Woody, that was the first time that Woody saw her or had a date with her and it ended up in marriage, happy marriage.
Let's digress on Durwood T. Verner from Cottonwood, Texas.
Describe him as a student.
He was a very, very good student.
What was it?
Class president, cadet colonel, and captain of the basketball team.
You know, just about everything that you could be.
He was a good guy.
We didn't have good basketball players, but he was a little bit above average of what we were, and we just had a good time playing basketball together.
But he was a good, solid student, perhaps a little bit more serious than most.
But we had a lot of serious people, though, really.
But he was just an outstanding cadet, outstanding student, really, outstanding leader.
And he was highly respected by you fellow students.
Oh, yes, yes.
I personally do not remember any adverse comments about Woody in any shape, form, or fashion.
and he went on to a career great leadership at Michigan State and Nebraska I think is still with us in fragile health but I think he's still around let's see routine changes now for a sophomore describe what it was like to be an Aggie sophomore let me let me go back and one other experience as a freshman oh good one Saturday morning
I decided that I was going to go home after classes, whatever.
And I hitchhiked home.
This was after Christmas.
I went home Thanksgiving.
I went home Christmas.
And in February, I decided I'm going home.
And I did not sign out with anybody.
No one knew where I was at all.
I was AWOL as far as they were concerned here.
I went home, and that's the night that my father died.
And my friend Milton Ray that I'd mentioned earlier happened to be home also that weekend, and he came out and saw me, and I asked him to tell the people in F Battery where I was.
And when I came back,
I did not undergo any hazing, any questioning, any chewing out of any fashion because I knew what the story was.
But I took out and I went home.
Did you know he was in danger when you left?
No, no.
He was in ill health.
He had been in poor health, I should say, for several years, two or three.
But there was no prognosis of any.
demise in the near future or anything like that.
I just went home.
Let's see.
That leads me to, we'll postpone this sophomore for a second.
As far as you can recall, what did that first year cost financially?
What did you bring with you?
I don't remember.
I really don't.
How much money did you bring?
Do you remember?
It wasn't very much.
I would imagine I've tried to
reconstruct this, I just don't know.
But I would imagine that Daddy gave me a check payable to A&M for room, board, tuition, whatever, for that first semester.
And where he got the money, I don't know.
Did you have any spending money that you had saved?
I didn't have any income to save.
On the farm it just was not anything like that.
I'm sure that they gave me a dollar or something.
I don't know.
I just don't remember anything because I just, I would imagine that my freshman year
I might have bought maybe five Cokes, cherry Cokes or something like that over at Casey's.
But I just didn't go anywhere that needed money.
Describe what it was like to become a sophomore.
How did life change?
I didn't have to put those passes on my door to get out at night.
What is that dorm over there by Cebiza that is now changed to an office building, that old dorm immediately on the southeast corner of Cebiza and across from the registrar's office and so on, whatever building that is, that's where we were.
And it was just essentially a period of emancipation from the
rather tight discipline, if you want to call it that, that freshman undergo.
I had a room orderly which helped, and I didn't have to clean up any upper-classmen's room.
But I was still a sophomore and not an upper-classman.
You had sophomores and then you had upper-classmen, and those didn't mix.
at least not an F battery.
And so you had freshmen, you had sophomores, and you had upperclassmen.
So you still were not completely free.
How did being an upperclassman then change you?
Oh man, you could go your own way.
It was, you know, you get to wear the other uniform and it just,
There's just a lot more freedom as an upperclassman as opposed to a sophomore and definitely as a freshman.
Let's see.
Classroom behavior.
How did you and your buddies behave in class?
Most of the time you strictly behaved, but I was sort of dependent on the prof too.
Like that Count Cigars throw the book out the window and apparently Paul did and that kind of broke up the class.
But there are others.
Mr. Tom Leland, head of accounting.
He was Mr. Leland.
And you respected Mr. Leland too.
But you really didn't joke around much in his classes at all.
Except one time.
I'll tell it anyway.
Jim Thomason, football player, was an accounting.
And one of the classes was Mr. Leland.
Jim for some reason wasn't giving him the right answers or something about what Mr. Leland was trying to get at.
Mr. Thomason,
you're not going into public accounting, are you?
And that kind of broke the class up.
But that's also the only time that I ever heard Mr. Leland kind of chide somebody.
But we never came in and marked on the blackboards or anything like that.
And I really don't think went to sleep much in class.
Did you attend class regularly?
Oh, yes.
We were authorized three cuts.
But if you got more than that, you usually got a cut down on your grade.
But I also go back and one other comment about that.
certain people at times could get excused for some absences.
And I mentioned Bill Greenwald.
He's now deceased.
But his senior year, he decided to go see his girlfriend up in Hope, Arkansas.
And he took off and went and came back and got excused absences.
And he took them to all of his profs.
And one of them said,
Mr. Greenwald, yes.
I recognize this excused absence.
And you missed an exam.
And this, to make up for it, is a take-home exam.
You have 24 hours.
You can use any book you want out of your own library, out of a big library, wherever you want, and you're not going to pass a quiz.
And he didn't.
We would essentially attend class.
Maybe sometimes on a Saturday morning you might cut class if the train was coming in and your date was on it, but most of the time not.
who who were some of the memorable teachers memorable for whatever reason and if you can their nicknames and so forth what I had a wine a key in or something like that I can't quite pull it back right now in accounting and he taught
junior accounting as I remember it.
I don't remember the nickname we had for him.
Maybe I couldn't tell it on tape if we did, but he was a stickler and you kind of hated him almost, but in the end also you respected him.
I never did really have nicknames.
Now, for some of them around, there were two in bullet text, in ROTC.
Colonel Beasley was the head field artillery instructor, and he was Colonel Beepo.
He had sort of a high, squeaky voice.
And then there was another one, Dapper Dan.
I think he was a captain, but, and I can't place a last name with him, but one time Colonel Beepo, in those days we had, in the field artillery, we had mounted batteries, we were horse drawn, and the F battery was one of the three that were, was a horse drawn battery, and it was for a,
review for President Roosevelt when he came down here.
And I don't know for sure whether it's in 38, 39 or 39, 40 era.
But it was one of those two years.
And F battery was the, to be the mounted battery for that review.
And as they started around, along came a train with the big whistles.
And I think the whistles in those days were stronger than they are now.
And
And that scared, I don't remember, there was one or two of the sets of teams.
And they ran.
And Henry Herter was, again, depending upon which year it was, either the first sergeant or the battery commander.
And he went racing on his horse to Colonel Beasley.
What to do, Colonel, what to do?
Take him around again, Mr. Herter.
Take him around again.
And that was in that high, squeaky voice.
And Henry said he can still remember that squeaky voice even now.
But Colonel Beepo and Dapper Dan, that Dapper Dan might have been Captain Elwood.
I'm not quite sure.
But of course, there was always Bear Tracks Bolton.
But I didn't.
Why was he called Bear Tracks?
I don't know.
Did he have big feet?
I think so.
I was lucky.
I never had to go into his office.
He was, what, vice president of the college or something like that.
At that time he was, I think, even up out of engineering.
And I never had to go to his office.
And I didn't want to go to his office because I heard some people that had been, and he could be gruff.
And then a graduate student, Satch Elkins.
And as I remembered, the reason for the name Satch is because of a satchel butt.
It seemed to kind of hang down.
It wasn't because he was carrying a satchel in his hand.
more related to his butt and uh i didn't i didn't have satch in anything i don't believe what about english anybody with i don't memorable characters uh were there some uh advisors who'd you who did you turn to for advice all right let me go back oh one um not that um
It was freshman chemistry.
I had Dr. Harrington.
And he gave me a vial of pure water.
And I tested it for everything and I never thought about water.
And yeah, I flunked it, but that, anyway.
And describe him as a teacher, M.T.
Harrington.
As I remember it, he was very thorough, but a very demanding person at that time, and had no hesitancy about flunking anybody.
And I say that because he was a classmate of my oldest brother, and I flunked it.
And I don't know whether he knew my relationship or not, but I feel sure they would not have made any difference to him.
But he was really a fair teacher, fair, equal, but a good, thorough, and
For those who had a good preparation for it from high school, I think that they would do very good.
I did not have a good science background in high school.
Let's see, who were some of the celebrity students, the students that, there were some football players here and so forth, who were some others other than Woody Varner who were well-known students?
Describe them.
There was a Tom Ritchie and Bill Becker that were leaders almost from the start.
Tom was president of the senior class and Bill Becker was cadet colonel.
And they had been leaders
throughout and Tom stayed in the Army.
I don't know exactly when he retired but he was out in Arizona and he decided to run for office and he opposed Barry Goldwater and barely lost as I understand it from out there.
Becker
Well, I believe he was also elected editor of the Longhorn.
But when he was made cadet colonel, he had to, I don't know whether he had to, but anyway, he did give up the Longhorn editorship.
But Bill received a regular Army commission.
and stayed in the Army and retired as a Major General from the Office of Legislative Liaison for the Department of the Army, liaison over to the Capitol Hill.
Somewhere along in here also, I believe a year earlier,
When I say a year earlier, a year earlier than I graduated, when I should have graduated, I did not graduate until 41.
But George Mitchell was here on campus at that time.
And most of the time he was known as Greek Mitchell.
I wouldn't call him that now, but that was what it was back in those days.
It's the man who went on to be developer, industrialist in Galveston and Houston.
Yes, and the oil and gas part.
And another one that was a leader, too, was on the football squad, Howard Shelton.
And he went on...
to be president of a bank up in Fort Worth.
Of course, Pete Wainer, I can't miss him.
He was in accounting with me and we studied together in certain places known as Mutt and Jeff.
But Pete became the managing partner of the Houston office for Anderson Clayton and was also chairman of the board of that Welch Foundation, something like that anyway, which
ultimately gave, I'd say, considerable monies to A&M for research purposes.
What about some of those football stars?
Describe them as your fellow students.
Well, Jim Thomason, you're not going into public accounting, are you, Mr. Thomason?
What about John Kimbrough?
I did not really know him much.
Back a little earlier, there was a Marshall Rob Nett, and I wouldn't want to be caught in a back alley with him, even if he knew that I was an Aggie.
He was a so-and-so.
I went out for football one day here as a walk-on, and they didn't have a uniform small enough for me.
And the guy that was, and I was going out for tackle,
and a guy that was tackled with Joe Boyd, later All-American, and an evangelist of some renown.
There was another guy, Jack Cooper, baseball player.
Jack was on the freshman football team here.
And I happened to be at that, that was a year that I was out of school or going back to Forney for postgraduate work.
And I was down here for that freshman Longhorn football game.
And I don't know the reason for the downs to be replayed, but Jack punted out of bounds three consecutive plays.